.. _4.10:

====
4.10
====

*Feb 11, 2021 除夕*

I'm pleased to announce a new release 4.10 is available now.

Happy Chinese New Year! 牛年大吉！🎆

Highlights
==========

Bugfixes
--------

* The export from a test run is fixed. User is able to export selected case
  runs (`PR#860`_).

* Fix incorrect URL encode during exporting test case runs to a CSV file
  (`#868`_).

* Fix wrong Python version in WSGIScriptAlias path (`#872`_)

* Add csrf_token to delete confirmation form (`#892`_)

* Fix removing a case with its email settings together (`PR#893`_)

.. _PR#860: https://github.com/Nitrate/Nitrate/pull/860
.. _#868: https://github.com/Nitrate/Nitrate/issues/868
.. _#872: https://github.com/Nitrate/Nitrate/issues/872
.. _#892: https://github.com/Nitrate/Nitrate/issues/892
.. _PR#893: https://github.com/Nitrate/Nitrate/pull/893

JavaScript codebase cleanup
---------------------------

* No frontend feature depends on handlebars.js library now, it is removed from
  ``static/js/lib/``.

* JavaScript files ``hole.js``, ``validations.js``, ``detetmine_type.js`` and
  ``scriptaculous-controls.js.patch`` are not used anymore. They are deleted
  from the codebase.

* Use ``HTMLOrForeignElement.dataset`` to refactor and simplify the code that
  access ``data-*`` data in a test run page. Meanwhile, the ``data-param`` and
  ``data-params`` attributes are also renamed to more meaningful word
  accordingly.  For example to set a direct URL to change a test run's status,
  the data attribute name is ``data-action-url``.

Dependencies
------------

* Django 2.1 is dropped. (`#884`_)
* django-tinymce is upgraded to version `3.2.0`_.

.. _3.2.0: https://github.com/jazzband/django-tinymce/releases/tag/3.2.0
.. _#884: https://github.com/Nitrate/Nitrate/issues/884

Infrastructure improvements
---------------------------

* The latest image built based on the latest ``develop`` branch and the release
  image shares a same Dockerfile to be built. Hence, when you pull the latest
  image and run locally, you could have a same environment to try Nitrate.
  Please note that, the latest image does not aim to be used in production.

* The image size is reduced at least 30%.

* SECRET_KEY must be set explicitly now during deployment to your own
  environment. For the reason why this is required, please refer to Django's
  `documentation`_ about the ``SECRET_KEY``.

* A new entrypoint is added to the released container image. It is responsbile
  for initializing the instance on-demand by defining specific environment
  variables, for example, setting ``NITRATE_MIGRATE_DB`` to run database
  migration. For full detailed information, please refer to the
  `image registry`_. These variables are useful for the first run particularly,
  or make it easy to initialize to run in a non-production environment. Be
  careful of setting these variables, use them when you really know what you
  want to do and what will happen.

* Nitrate is able to be fully customized by mounting a container's volume and
  provide a custom settings Python module.

* New CI workflow is added to build RPM from latest ``develop`` branch, and
  then build and push latest image to Quay.io registry. (`PR#883`_)

.. _documentation: https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.1/ref/settings/#std:setting-SECRET_KEY
.. _image registry: https://quay.io/repository/nitrate/nitrate
.. _PR#883: https://github.com/Nitrate/Nitrate/pull/883

Get and install
===============

From PyPI::

    pip install nitrate-tcms

From image registry::

    docker pull quay.io/nitrate/nitrate:4.10

Refer to :ref:`deployment` for details of installation.

Database Migration
==================

No database migration.

Change Log
==========

* Fix script make-release
* Prevent Fedora rawhide from impacting CI
* Fix removing a case with its email settings together
* Add csrf_token to delete confirmation form (`#892`_)
* Reduce image size
* Quote empty value for vendor label properly
* Upgrade celery to 5.0.5
* Drop Django 2.1 (`#884`_)
* Apply tag latest to latest image by default
* Add more metadata to image (`#881`_)
* Fetch all history in order to run git-describe
* Add missed CONTAINER=docker to make latest-image
* Give dev-release workflow a meaningful name
* Use f33 to schedule latest RPM build
* Fix coveralls 422 Client Error
* Use single Dockerfile to build latest and release image
* Test building Fedora rawhide package
* Massiv update image README
* Add entrypoint to release image (`#459`_)
* SECRET_KEY must be set explicitly
* Add Fedora Copr badge
* Make it easier to customize the settings (`#815`_)
* Fix wrong Python version in WSGIScriptAlias path (`#872`_)
* Cleanup settings
* Remove one for-loop through case runs for generating a test run report
* Reuse CaseRunStatusGroupByResult to generate test run report
* Simplify the code of exporting case runs
* Fix incorrect log link url encode (`#868`_)
* JS: use dataset to replace data-params
* Remove unused templates
* Add custom template linter and fix detected issues (`#859`_)
* Fix docstrings using sphnix Python domain syntax
* Remove unused src/templates/run/common/run_filtered.html
* Set first request argument properly for test_filter_plans
* Keep the order by pk during serializing m2m field for XMLRPC
* JS: use dataset in case, plan, run, environment features
* JS: use dataset in test plan features
* Fix test on run statistics
* Remove duplicate template of tag list in a test run
* JS: use dataset to refactor setting case run sortkey
* JS: use dataset to refactor adding and removing cc
* JS: use dataset to refactor the environment values management
* JS: use dataset to refactor adding and removing tags to and from a test run
* JS: use dataset to refactor filtering case runs from run statistics
* JS: remove duplicate event handlers based on selected case runs
* JS: use dataset for editing a test run
* JS: use dataset for exporting case runs
* JS: use dataset for deleting a test run
* JS: use dataset for setting a test run status
* JS: use dataset for deleting issue from a case run
* Replace 2 spaces with one tab
* Merge branch 'release-4.9.x' into develop
* JS: remove detetmine_type.js (`#852`_)
* JS: remove validations.js (`#853`_)
* JS: remove hole.js (`#854`_)
* JS: remove scriptaculous-controls.js.patch (`#855`_)
* Rewrite add tag dialog (`#848`_)
* Merge branch 'release-4.9' into develop
* Release 4.9.1
* Declare HTML5 in base template

.. _#459: https://github.com/Nitrate/Nitrate/issues/459
.. _#815: https://github.com/Nitrate/Nitrate/issues/815
.. _#848: https://github.com/Nitrate/Nitrate/issues/848
.. _#852: https://github.com/Nitrate/Nitrate/issues/852
.. _#853: https://github.com/Nitrate/Nitrate/issues/853
.. _#854: https://github.com/Nitrate/Nitrate/issues/854
.. _#855: https://github.com/Nitrate/Nitrate/issues/855
.. _#859: https://github.com/Nitrate/Nitrate/issues/859
.. _#868: https://github.com/Nitrate/Nitrate/issues/868
.. _#872: https://github.com/Nitrate/Nitrate/issues/872
.. _#881: https://github.com/Nitrate/Nitrate/issues/881
.. _#884: https://github.com/Nitrate/Nitrate/issues/884
.. _#892: https://github.com/Nitrate/Nitrate/issues/892
