.. _4.13:

====
4.13
====

*Nov 20, 2022*

I’m pleased to announce a new version 4.13 is available now.

Get Nitrate
===========

From PyPI
---------

.. code-block:: shell

   python3 -m pip install nitrate-tcms

No RPM Packages
---------------

Since version, no RPM package is built. Nitrate is only packaged into
container images. Please refer to next section.

Container Images
----------------

``quay.io/nitrate/nitrate`` and ``quay.io/nitrate/nitrate-worker`` are
deprecated, please migrate to new image:

* ``quay.io/nitrate/web:4.13``: the main image including Nitrate Web
  application.

* ``quay.io/nitrate/worker:4.13``: an optional worker image if the
  asynchronous tasks scheduled and run by Celery are required.

Refer to :ref:`deployment` for detailed information.

For more information about containers, please refer to `Nitrate/containers`_

.. _Nitrate/containers: https://github.com/Nitrate/containers/

Bugfixes
========

* Add missing csrf token for choosing cases to runs (#1037)
* NaN is shown in the input when change a case run's sort key (#1013)
* KeyError at /report/testing/ (#1094)
* TestPlan.add_text can't set creation date correctly (#1001)
* Reword message for updating case runs (#1036)

Database Migrations
===================

This release includes database migrations. Schema changes:

* There are a few due to the upgrade of django-contrib-comments to
  version 2.2.0.
* Use ``BigAutoField`` for the models primary key.

Distribution
============

* Fedora 35 is the base image of Nitrate container images (#1058)
* Update IRC (PR #1060)
* Fedora 34 package is removed (PR #1076)
* Run Nitrate within virtual environment inside container (#1051)
* Provide consistent requirements for creating virtual environment (#1052)

Dependencies
============

* Upgrade extras dependencies (PR #1059)

Infrastructure Improvements
===========================

* Successfully build the documentation in RTD by upgrading the config
  format to version 2 (#1028, #1029, #1030)
* Fedora 33 is removed from the CI infrastructure (#1058)
* Add lgtm to GH CI (#1062)
* Remove Django 2.2 from testenv (#1072)
* Remove Django 3.1 from testenv (#1077)
* mypy is added to testenv and GH CI (#1004)
* Use md5 password hasher for tests (PR #1082)
* Allow running tests in parallel (PR #1084)
* Allow specifying specific Python files to lint checks (PR #1084)
* Remove f34 from dev-release CI task (PR #1085)
* Drop RPM package build completely (#976)
* Disable lgtm.com (#1107)
* Remove branch pattern release-*.* from CI (#1105)
* Repository passed to action/checkout is in wrong format (#1109)
* Merge linters properly in CI (#1104)
* Provide consistent requirements for creating virtual environment (#1052)

Codebase Improvements
=====================

* Remove jQuery from constructForm (#1022)
* Refactor and remove jQuery from csrf.html (#1031)
* View function testplans.views.delete is not used, remove it. (#968)
* Use Array.isArray in Nitrate.Utils.formSerialize (#1017)
* Call document.createElement to create DOM elements (#1038)
* Rewrite DetailExpansion in class (#972)
* Add bandit to testenv (#1061)
* JS: remove submitComment (#1047)
* JS: remove unused argument (#1049)
* JS: rename JS filenames (#1016)
* Remove testcases js from plan get.html
* JS: fix incorrect handle of window.prompt result
* Remove testplans and testcases js from assign_case.html
* Remove testcases js from plan get.html
* JS: fix incorrect handle of window.prompt result
* Remove testplans and testcases js from assign_case.html
* Recover completed_case_run_percent
* Simplify timedelta2int (PR #1087)
* Add missing migrations for default BigAutoField (PR #1089)
* Pin package versions for mypy check (PR #1092)
* Fix mypy issues (PR #1092)
* Upgrade celery version (PR #1092)
* Social Auth Provider requires URLS (#1095)
* Add pyproject.toml (PR #1114)

